>> Speaker 1: Welcome back, hopefully
everyone had enough time to write a query
for the pets react page to Fets and
Pets, and if you went the extra step you
might've even added some pets based off
the pet type in our graphical schema,
to the sense so you can actually
see some pets show up on the page.
If you didn't get that far, don't worry,
I'm gonna walk through it right now.
All right, first thing first is let's
figure out what query we're writing and
go ahead and pass it to our use query.
So in order to do that, what we'll do is,
let me just comment this stuff out just
in case it's broken on my version.
What we'll do is we'll go to the app
here and, let me refresh this.
Looks like I've still got stuff broken.
Yeah, pets not defined.
Get rid of that.
>> Speaker 1: Cool, so
we'll go to the Apollo dev tools.
Sometimes you've gotta refresh it.
There we go.
And if we click on the Docs,
we can see Query.
And we wanna get the pets queries.
So that's the name of it, pets.
It takes optional arguments, pets
input and it returns an array of pets.
So that's the one that we're gonna do.
I already have it here.
So what I like to do is I like to just
go ahead and write my query in here and
get it all ready.
So I'm gonna give it a operation name
of something called like allPets.
You can call it whatever you want.
And then I wanna put my query in here and
the important things,
oops, this thing is all formatted for me.
There we go.
Why is this acting so weird?
Wait!
[SOUND] pets, there we go!
The important thing is if we only ask for
one thing it's gonna be the ID.
Like if that's the one thing you ask for,
make sure you get the ID back.
And remember because we need that
to cache, because without this what
Apollo's going to do, it's going to use
the path to the node based on the query
as an index to store it, and
that is a lot harder for
Apollo to do automatic updates
when you do things like mutations,
because it's gonna be a different path.
So I highly recommend
always setting down an ID.
Otherwise, you'd have to
update that yourself.
So do that.
Let's get a name, let's get a type and
let's get the image.
So execute that, empty array.
That means it didn't break,
so that's good.
And I was gonna copy that query.
Now I'm gonna go back to our code and
I'm gonna make a query.
What most people do is the convention is,
if you ever use something redux or
anything like that, you kinda name your
queries using all caps, and underscore.
So, I'm just gonna name this the ALL_PETS.
Query like that.
>> Speaker 1: And
I'm just gonna paste in my query.
>> Speaker 1: Boom, so
now we got ALL_PETS, we got our pets here.
And I can go down to useQuery.
So again, this is a hook but you don't
really need to know that it's a hook.
Just think of it as a function
that takes a query.
In this case,ALL_PETS.
And it's just gonna return
an object that has the data.
A Boolean, if it's loading or not.
Because this does happen asynchronously
in the background for you.
And I said the background,
because you don't have to do this.
There's no await, you're not waiting for
this to come back.
And that's why there's
a loading property here,
cuz this could be happening
in the background.
And just like in React where you do set
state, what happens is once this promises
resolve and there's no error, the data
gets set which causes this property to be
updated with the correct data which causes
a re-render of this entire component.
So this entire component re-renders
whenever any one of these states used from
a hook is changed.
And that's what causes a re-render.
So when data is changed because your query
was resolved in the background, you're
gonna get a re-render, and now data will
have some data, and loading will be false.
And if you don't have any errors,
this won't be anything as well.
But we need to handle that because if
we just try to use data right now,
it's gonna break because the data will for
sure be undefined if loading is false
because it's still loading, so
we have to handle that used case.
If you looked up top you might notice
there's a loader component here, so
we can just copy that and
you can do something like, if loading,
you can just return that
loader component like that.
And that will do a loading for you.
And then you just need handle errors.
If there was an error,
you can return whatever you want.
In this case,
I'll just return like a P tag
that says error, something like that.
So we handle those use cases.
And then now for data,
data is going to be the entire response.
And remember all graph kill
objects return on a data problem.
And then everything after that
is whatever is in your query.
So that means we're gonna have data.pets.
We're going to have pets here.
And if you don't want pets,
then you can call this whatever you want,
and then it'll going to
be data dot whatever.
That's where aliases come back in.
So in this case, I'll just keep pets.
Got data.pets.
I'll go down to our pets
list as pets like this,
and as data.pets.
Everybody following me so far?
All right.
Make sure your server is still on,
everything is still good.
Go back to refresh.
If you don't get any
errors then you did good.
Now if you want to actually see
something show up on the page,
then you can go to dv.json and
based off on, this thing opens back up.
There we go, based off on
the pet type which is here.
So, ID, a name, owner,
image creator, all this stuff.
You can just copy this,
you can go to pets.json.
You can just make some pets, right click.
So we'll move this over.
>> Speaker 1: There we go.
So you can just hard
code a lot of this stuff.
I'm just gonna make this appropriate json.
There we go.
So for an ID, you can just put
whatever you want, it's just an ID,
it doesn't matter.
For a type, I'm just gonna put dog.
For a name, moose, owner, don't need that.
Image, don't need that, created that.
Sure sometimes out there,
where you can make a few of this.
So am going to copy that,
make another one, make another one.
Make this one a cat, give a different ID,
give that one a different ID.
There we go.
Cool.
Save that,
have to restart the server probably.
And if we go back and
refresh this, we'll get some pets.
>> Speaker 1: Everybody following me so
far?
Who got tests to show up?
So everybody understand the concept
of having to handle the loading and
error state.
Right?
If I were to comment this out right now,
our whole applet break.
completely broke and
it's probably broke because.
It's saying can't read doc pets of
undefined or something like that.
Yep.
Can't read pets property of undefined.
And that's because, it's trying to read
pets of data, but data's undefined.
And data's undefined
because loading is true.
So, your initial reaction might
be able to go in here like,
I'm just going to create
a default state for data.
Well, don't do that,
just handle the loading case instead.
And the same would go true,
if there was an error.
So, if I kept the loading, but
didn't handle the error, and I for
sure had an error here like that
which is not a valid GraphQL query,
it will probably also break, right?
Can't read pets or undefined.
That's because I have an error.
And you know you have an error if
you've got like 400 bad requests, and
if you go look at the network tab you
can see that it failed right here.
The errors array, and
it says cannot query field on type pet.
Did you mean type, it even gave
you a suggestion, look at that.
Like that's what you meant,
you actually meant that.
That's actually a really good feature,
I forgot GraphQL had that.
That's really dope.
>> Speaker 1: Cool, so you fix that,
handle your error case, good to go.
Definitely wanna show a better error than
that, but you get the point, pretty good.